Blog: Best pendo alternatives (#7624)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/best-pendo-alternatives.mdx

---

> title: The best Pendo alternatives & competitors, compared*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: The best Pendo alternatives & competitors, compared
```

date: 2024-01-25
author: ["ian-vanagas"]
rootpage: /blog
featuredImage: ../images/blog/posthog-engineering-blog.png
featuredImageType: full
tags:
 - Comparisons
---

import { ComparisonTable } from 'components/ComparisonTable'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

> The most popular Pendo alternatives in 2023 are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most popular Pendo alternatives in 2024 are:
```

Reviewer: Can you update the year on all these in this PR? May as well get them all at once.

Author: I'll do a separate one.

> 1. **PostHog:** An all-in-one platform combining comprehensive analytics with session replay, user surveys, A/B testing, and feature flags. Ideal for B2B SaaS apps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. **PostHog:** An all-in-one platform combining comprehensive analytics with session replays, user surveys, A/B testing, and feature flags. Ideal for B2B SaaS apps.
```

5. **Heap:** A digital insights platform for understanding the end-to-end journey including analytics, autocapture, and session replay.

6. **Appcues:** A focused product onboarding and surveying tool for boosting product adoption.

7. **Smartlook:** Comprehensive user insight platform with analytics, session replay, heatmaps, and crash reports.

This guide covers:

- How these tools compare to Pendo.
- Which key Pendo features they support.
- What kind of users and companies use them, and why.

## 1. PostHog

- **Founded:** 2020
- **Most similar to:** Heap, Pendo, Smartlook
- **Typical users:** Engineers, product, and growth teams
- **Typical customers:** Mid-size product-focused B2Bs and startups

![PostHog](../images/blog/best-pendo-alternatives/posthog.png)

### What is PostHog?

[PostHog](/) (that's us 👋) is an open-source platform combining product analytics, session replay, user surveys, feature flags, and A/B testing into one product. This means it's not just an alternative to Pendo, but also tools like [LaunchDarkly](/blog/best-launchdarkly-alternatives) and [Amplitude](/blog/best-amplitude-alternatives).

> Typical PostHog users are engineers, founders, and product managers at startups and mid-size companies, particularly B2B companies. Customers include [AssemblyAI](/customers/assemblyai), [Hasura](/customers/hasura), [Vendasta](/customers/vendasta), and Airbus.

Reviewer 2: Im a bit concerned this will alienate users at larger companies

Author: It's kind of true and represents our ICP, Airbus is a big company and the other alternatives target a lot bigger companies. 😅

### Key features

- 📈 **Product analytics:** Funnels, user paths, retention analysis, custom trends, and dynamic user cohorts. Also supports [SQL insights](/docs/product-analytics/sql) for power users.

> - 💬 **Surveys:** Target surveys by event or user properties. Templates for [net promoter score (NPS)](/templates/nps-survey), [product-market fit (PMF)](/templates/pmf-survey) surveys, and more.

Reviewer 2: I would include surveys in the hyperlink, since PMF is something else without the surveys bit 
```suggestion
- 💬 **Surveys:** Target surveys by event or user properties. Templates for [net promoter score (NPS)](/templates/nps-survey), [product-market fit (PMF) surveys](/templates/pmf-survey), and more.
```

- 📺 **Session replays:** Including event timelines, console logs, network activity, and 90-day data retention.

- 🧪 **A/B tests:** Up to 9 test variations, primary and secondary metrics. Automatically calculate test duration, sample size, and statistical significance.

- 🚩 **Feature flags:** Rollout features safely with local evaluation (for faster performance) and JSON payloads.

### How does PostHog compare to Pendo?

> Both PostHog and Pendo are multi-product companies covering many use cases. Pendo focuses on in-app guides and internal tools. PostHog focuses on tools engineering and growth teams need like feature flags and A/B testing.

Reviewer 2: I would emphasize product teams, since the people considering Pendo are likely PMs
```suggestion
Both PostHog and Pendo are multi-product companies covering many use cases. Pendo focuses on in-app guides and internal tools. PostHog focuses on tools product and engineering teams need like feature flags and A/B testing.
```

3. **Heatmaps and scrollmaps:** Seeing clicks and scroll depth down works well and creates actionable insights for design, marketing, and content teams. Helps improve UX and page designs.

> #### Bottom line
> Hotjar and Pendo are both tools for building better user experiences. Hotjar does this by capturing qualitative data but misses out on the adoption tools for actually improving those experiences. Still, by being self-serve and free to try, it makes a solid alternative to Pendo.

## 4. WalkMe

- **Founded:** 2011
- **Most similar to:** Whatfix, Appcues
- **Typical users:** HR, IT, and training teams.
- **Typical customers:** Enterprises with large staffs like consultancies, healthcare, and sales.

![WalkMe](../images/blog/best-pendo-alternatives/walkme.png)

### What is WalkMe?

WalkMe is a leading digital adoption platform that overlays any application. It tracks usage of internal software, automates repetitive tasks, and provides guidance to onboarding or lost users. It is used by sales teams to navigate a CRM like Salesfore, HR teams to onboard with Workday, or support teams to resolve issues with ServiceNow.

### Key features

> - 🙋‍♂️**Guidance:** Create guidance for workflows that resolve friction. Provide content, notifications, and support at the right time.
> - 🏗️ **Workflows:** Automate common tasks, and help employees save time with repetitive tasks.
> - 🤝 **Integrations:** Integrate with Salesforce, Workday, ServiceNow, and more to speed up adoption and automate workflows.
> - 📈 **Analytics:** Monitor application, workflow, and form analytics to get insights on how employees are using software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🙋‍♂️**Guidance:** Create guidance for workflows that resolve friction. Provide content, notifications, and support at the right time.

- 🏗️ **Workflows:** Automate common tasks, and help employees save time with repetitive tasks.

- 🤝 **Integrations:** Integrate with Salesforce, Workday, ServiceNow, and more to speed up adoption and automate workflows.

- 📈 **Analytics:** Monitor application, workflow, and form analytics to get insights on how employees are using software.
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Feedback" description="Get qualitative feedback from your users via feedback and surveys" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Segmenting" description="Analyze and filter based on user properties and behaviors" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Session replay" description="Watch real users on your site; discover friction points" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={true} feature="Self-serve with free tier" description="Free to use, no mandatory sales calls" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Transparent pricing" description="Get pricing immediately without talking to sales" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={"Limited"} column2={"Enterprise"} feature="EU hosting" description="Store your data in the EU to comply with privacy regulations" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={false} column2={false} feature="Open source" description="Audit code, contribute to the roadmap, and build integrations" />
</ComparisonTable>

### How popular is WalkMe?

> According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/widgets/WalkMe), as of January 2024, 1,006 of the top million sites used WalkMe. This is roughly a quarter of Pendo's 3,711 but doesn't reflect WalkMe's focus on internal apps. Ahrefs has WalkMe's organic traffic at 85.9k, which is nearly double Pendo's 35.9k.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to [BuiltWith](https://trends.builtwith.com/widgets/WalkMe), as of January 2024, 1,006 of the top million sites used WalkMe. This is roughly a quarter of Pendo's 3,711 but doesn't reflect WalkMe's focus on internal apps. 
```

Not sure this adds much, tbh.

1. **Autocapture:** Non-technical users love how easy autocapture makes tracking on their site. The clicks, pageviews, and element data provide a huge amount of useful analytics data with little setup.

2. **Simple setup:** It does not take a big technical effort to set Heap up. Users can add a single script and begin collecting data. They then make it easy to visualize that data through user paths, funnels, and session replays.

3. **Streamlining analysis:** By having analytics and session replay data in one place, Heap makes it easy to understand the usage of their app or site. This replaces interviews or user testing and makes the development cycle faster.

> #### Bottom line
> For product analytics and session replay, Heap is a good alternative to Pendo as it has greater focus and depth for those features. If you need, in-app guides and surveys, it is better to look elsewhere. 

## 6. Appcues

- **Founded:** 2013
- **Most similar to:** WalkMe, Whatfix
- **Typical users:** Product marketing and growth teams, product managers
- **Typical customers:** Product-led B2B SaaS companies

![Appcues](../images/blog/best-pendo-alternatives/appcues.png)

### What is Appcues?

> Appcues is a product adoption platform helping teams build better onboarding. It provides no-code component builder, announcements, and personalization to help improve activation, conversion, and stickiness. Also includes analytics to help track your progress improving onboarding flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Appcues is a product adoption platform helping teams build better onboarding. It provides a no-code component builder, announcements, and personalization to help improve activation, conversion, and stickiness. It also includes analytics to help track your progress improving onboarding flows.
```

### Key features

- 🆘 **In-app guides:** Help users and drive feature adoption with slideouts, tooltips, and hotspots.

- 🧑‍💻 **No-code builder:** Create and customize onboarding components without needing to write code.

- 📋 **Feedback:** Run in-app surveys to capture feedback and NPS scores**.**

- 🤹 **Personalization:** Segment users and show unique, custom onboarding for each.

- 📈 **Analytics:** Understand how your onboarding flows are performing with event capture, trends, and funnels.

### How does Appcues compare to Pendo?

> Appcues focuses on features helping improve the product onboarding experience. They miss out on features of Pendo that capture the broader user experience like product analytics and session replay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Appcues focuses on features helping improve the product onboarding experience. However, it lacks features that capture the broader user experience, like product analytics and session replay.
```
